Add new Terminology documentation (#4383)
kubernetes-sigs/gateway-api: site-src/concepts/api-overview.md

more portable spec. This behaviour will be made clear using the GatewayClass
Status object.

Gateway objects bind one or more **Addresses** to one or more **Listeners**.

> **Addresses** are how the Gateway is reached, and are usually IP addresses, although some implementations (particularly ones that route traffic via one of Amazon's load balancers) use domain names instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Addresses** are how the Gateway is reached, and are usually IP addresses, although some implementations (particularly ones that route traffic via an AWS load balancer) use domain names instead.
```

**Listeners** describe how the Gateway should listen for traffic, and have a `port`, a `protocol`, and other protocol-specific details.
Listeners that are not **distinct** are in conflict, and Gateway API includes instructions for what happens in various conflict cases. What makes Listeners distinct is a bit complicated and is discussed in the Distinctiveness section (link).

> A critical reason for the requirement that Listeners are distinct is that traffic flowing through a Gateway **must only match a single Listener**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A critical reason for the requirement that Listeners are distinct is that traffic flowing through a Gateway must match only a single Listener, as mentioned earlier.
```

Author: I don't see where this doc mentions that traffic must match only a single Listener before this, so I'm not sure where "earlier" refers to here.

Any particular traffic must only be able to be asssigned to a single Listener, and once that Listener is chosen, the traffic **must** be routable via an attached, protcol-specific Route, **or it must be dropped by the Gateway**.

The most important outcome here is that traffic can't fail to be routed by one Listener, then fall back to another for further processing.
For more information on this, see the [Traffic Matching](traffic-matching.md) page.

However, for the Gateway -> Route relationship, the most important thing is that Routes **attach** to one or more Listeners on the the Gateway.

> #### Distinctiveness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Listener Distinction
```

> For the property that traffic must only match _single_ Listener to be true, then Listeners must be **distinct**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the property that traffic must only match a _single_ Listener to be true, then Listeners must be **distinct**.
```

Gateway API defines **distinctiveness** according to the protocol selected on the Listener. For any given protocol, some fields (particularly `port`) MAY be shared, but exactly what that means depends on the protocol.

> Listeners that are _not_ distinct are **Conflicted**, and may not be present on the same Gateway. If they are, then the entire Gateway is not valid and will not be `Accepted` for processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Listeners that are _not_ distinct are **Conflicted**, and may not be present on the same Gateway. If they are, then the entire Gateway is invalid and will not reach `Accepted` status.
```

    In this case, the `hostname` describes the Server Name Indicator (SNI) used as part of the TLS handshake, which can be used as a routing discriminator.
    Note that, in this case the TLS config in the `tls` stanza is _not_ relevant, as that allows you to specify whether or not the connection is terminated, which is not relevant in this case - because only the SNI, which applies in either terminated or not terminated cases, is defined.
    * `HTTP` Listeners are distinct via the combination of the fields `protocol`, `port`, `hostname`.
    Two Listeners that both expose `HTTP` on port `80`, with different `hostname` fields, are distinct.
    * `HTTPS` Listeners are distinct via the combination of the fields `protocol`, `port`, `hostname`, and the `tls` stanza, particularly the `tls.mode` field.
    If the protocol is `HTTPS`, then you must have a Secret reference that points to a Kubernetes Secret of type `kubernetes.io/tls`. Listeners with different `hostnames` may point to different Secrets, but we don't mandate that (since a single certificate can support many hostnames).

>     So, two Listeners that expose `HTTPS` on port `443` are distinct if they have different `hostname` fields.

Reviewer: Or if they have the same hostname and different tls.mode fields?

Reviewer: Maybe we need to reword this then, to specify what in the tls stanza contibutes to the distinctiveness:  
``` 
HTTPS` Listeners are distinct via the combination of the fields `protocol`, `port`, `hostname`, and the `tls` stanza, particularly the `tls.mode` field.
```

> ### Route Resources

Reviewer: It's kind of odd that we use the suffix "Resources" only here.

```suggestion
### Routes
```

#### Route summary table

One of the most important use cases for Gateway API is to allow Ana the Application Developer and her peers to be able to multiplex Routes onto the same Listener.
Each Route type has different information that can be used to accomplish this, and these sets of information are called **Routing Discriminators**.

More precisely, **Routing discriminators** are the information that can be used to allow multiple Routes to share a single port on a Listener.

This table from the [API Overview](link) page summarizes the various Route types included in Gateway API, with their **Routing Discriminators**.

|Object|Protocol|OSI Layer|Routing Discriminator|TLS Support|Purpose|
|------|--------|---------|---------------------|-----------|-------|

> |HTTPRoute|HTTP or HTTPS| Layer 7 | Anything in the HTTP Protocol | Terminated only | HTTP and HTTPS Routing|

Reviewer: "Terminated only" is misleading here.  HTTPRoute TLS can be reencrypted (as can TLSRoute, I believe, per new clarifications).

Author: Terminated is what people expect to use in the Listener context though. I'll mention that re-encryption is possible using BackendTLSPolicy.

Author: I just added a separate "Backend TLS Support" column, and changed the existing column to "Listener TLS Support".

|TLSRoute|TLS| Somewhere between layer 4 and 7| SNI or other TLS properties| Passthrough or Terminated | Routing of TLS protocols including HTTPS where inspection of the HTTP stream is not required.|
|GRPCRoute|HTTP or HTTPS| Layer 7 | Anything in the gRPC Protocol | Terminated only | gRPC Routing over HTTP/2 and HTTP/2 cleartext|

> |TCPRoute|TCP| Layer 4| None | Passthrough or Terminated | Allows for forwarding of a TCP stream from the Listener to the Backends |

Reviewer: Did we add Passthrough?

  a single Route to control application exposure simultaneously across different
  IPs, load balancers, or networks.

For a Route to attach to a Listener, two things have to be true:

> * The Route must reference a Gateway (or one of its Listeners) in its `parentRefs` stanza. All Routes **must** contain a `parentRefs` stanza to be a Gateway API compliant Route object.

Reviewer: A listener can be a parentRef?

* The Listener must _accept_ the Route's attachment. There are many ways for Listeners to describe the shape of what Routes should attach to a given Listener, and some attachments require agreement between the Listener and the Route about protocol-specific details (for example, matching hostnames between a Listener and a HTTPRoute).

> The Route side of this is intended to ensure that, at all times, control over where an application is exposed is in the hands of Ana, the Application Developer. Chihiro, the Cluster Admin and Gateway owner, can control what _sorts_ of Routes can attach to their Gateway, but they can't force Ana to do anything. The final decision is always Ana's.

Reviewer: "they can't force Ana to do anything" - really?  It's more like they are the legislators rather than the police?  Can we say they may "forbid" Ana to do something?
